Introduction:-


1.	What is cloud computing ?
                 The cloud computing is the computing services to using that storage ,databases, networking , software ,analysting the data by using internet 
        this is payable condition

2.	Deployment Model in Cloud ?
There are four type of deployment model in cloud 
        1 public cloud – this computing services is provided to third party by using public internet and they have provides a many services   
          example---- AWS , Azure
        2 private cloud – this is set by only one organization for self use 
         3 Hybrid cloud – the organization can be use own services as well as public services    


3.	Service Model in Cloud ?
 There are 5 type of service model
•	Infrastructure as a service ( IAAS)
•	Platform as a service ( PAAS )
•	Software as a service ( SAAS )
•	Anything as a service ( AAAS )
•	Function as a service ( FAAS ) 


4.	Architecture of Cloud Computing ?
             The services are 3 types 
                    1)  Infrastructure as a Service    IAAS -    This serves can be use only hardware setup   and using only infrastructure they have use O/S ,
                        Ventilation , server , storage , networks 
                    2)   Platform as a Service  PAAS – this serves can be use hardware setup and development frame (software services ) and own application 
                    3)   Software as a Service   SAAS –  this service can use over all  hardware as well as software setup with application 


                            
                  
                              

5.	AWS Global Infrastructure Count ?
Availability Zones: AWS had over 80 Availability Zones in 25 geographic Regions around the world. Each Region consists of multiple Availability Zones to 
                   provide redundancy and fault tolerance.
Edge Locations: AWS had more than 200 Edge Locations. These Edge Locations are used by the Amazon CloudFront content delivery network (CDN) to cache 
               and distribute content to end-users with low latency.
Local Zones: AWS introduced Local Zones in some metropolitan areas to provide single-digit millisecond latency to end-users. These Local Zones extend the 
             reach of AWS services to even more locations.


6.	Why do we use region ?
                           This design achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and stability. When you view your resources, you see only the resources that
                are tied to the AWS Region that you specified. The using region because one region data forwarding  , storage, handling  as well as charges 
                 and many thing and data separating are very easy    


7.	What is service ? & What are resources ?
            Servies – they have intangible good that is produced and consumed simultaneously  and including the many resources in one service 
            Resources – the resources have you can work with the service part for example EC2 instance , creating bucket and multiple resources 





IAM:-


1.	How many resources do we have in IAM ?
        a.	Can be owner can create IAM  user account and they have generate keys and there password 
        b.	In this he will be add to group and  create a group
        c.	They provide the roles 
        d.	And also provide the policies 
       e.	And they have give  services and resources roles and polices
       f.	The own custom polices he give
                -AWS Accounts
               -IAM Users
              -IAM Groups
             - IAM Roles
             -AWS Services and Resources
             -Customer Managed Policies
             -Resource Policies






2.	Deployment model in IAM ?
3.	Identities in IAM ?
4.	What is an IAM User ?


5.	What is the IAM Group ?
        Collection of IAM users and there give the specific permission to group as well attached to user  





6.	What is the IAM Policy ?
7.	Where do we attach Identity Based Policy ?
8.	Where do we attach Resource Based Policy ?
                 IAM polices defines permission for an action of the method that you use to perform the operation to specific services there are tow 
                 type of policy 
                      
             •	Identity based policy 
                       Attach managed and inline policies to IAM identification ( user ,group , roles )

                •	Resource based policy 
                         Attache inline policies for resource
                        The most conman example of amazon s3 bucket policies and IAM role trust  policies 

           




9.	What is the IAM Role ?
           To the temporary access to specific services to user you give the use the IAM role   



10.	Can we be able to create Policy via json code ?
           The you wanted attached a policy to the user by json the code will you generate and past the json code bar and attached to the user 




11.	If one user has created it by default, which permission has been assigned to that user ?
12.	What is dominator policy ?





13.	What is ARN ? What are the fields in ARN ? ( amazon resource name ) 
                 ARN is the specific formats depends on the resource to provides  to aws it is 23 digit number and code  
               
                      There are six fields in ARN       
                               Arn name : aws (provides name) : iam (service name) : (region) : (account ID ) : ( resorce ID , name )




14.	How many types of ARN Partition ?
                    There are three types of ARN – 1) aws – AWS regions
                                                   2) aws-cn – china regions 
                                                  3) aws-us-gov – AWS Govcloud (US) regions  




15.	What are Tags ?
        There are use the tags to identification purpose the specific services recourse
        And tags are metadata labels attached to cloud resources to provide additional information about those resources 

S3:-

   16.	Difference between Block storage & Object Storage ?
        Block storage –
                     Block storage is more like the hard drive in the computer in use and function and is
                     typically used to provide virtual machines with an attached storage volume (virtual hard drive) Snapshots and backups of virtual servers.
                     Good examples for block storage use cases are structured database storage, random read/write loads, and virtual machine file system (VMFS) 
                     volumes.

        Object storage -
                     Static Web content, data backups and archival images, and multimedia (videos, pictures, or music) files are best stored as objects.
                     It has its own API and support other APIs as well.
                   
                   • Every object contains three things:
                            1- The data itself, photo, document, etc.
                           2- An expandable amount of metadata. Defined by whoever creates the object storage.
                           3- A globally unique identifier. An address given to the object in order for the object to be found over a distributed system.




17.	Difference between static website & dynamic website ?
             
              Static website –
                             1)	In static website, pages will remain same until someone changes It manually
                             2)	Static web pages are simple 
                             3)	In static webpage, Information change rarely 
                             4)	In static webpages database I's not use
                             5)	In static  web pages written in HTML, CSS, JavaScript
                             6)	static web pages takes less time for loading
                             7)	Static website does not contain application program

             Dynamic website-
                             1)	In dynamic website, content of pages are different for different Visitors
                             2)	 Dynamic web pages are complicate
                             3)	 In Dynamis website, information Are change frequently 
                             4)	 In dynamic web pages database is used
                             5)	Dynamic web pages are written in CHI, ASP.Net
                             6)	Dynamic website takes more time for loading.
                             7)	 Dynamic website contains  application program



18.	What are the naming rules ?
                  The rule can be use to the give the naming
                      1)The bucket name can be between 3 and 63 characters long, and can contain only lower-case characters, numbers, periods, and dashes.
                      2)Each label in the bucket name must start with a lowercase letter or number.
                      3)The bucket name cannot contain underscores, end with a dash, have consecutive periods, or use dashes adjacent to periods.
                      4)The bucket name cannot be formatted as an IP address (198.51.100.24).




19.	What is the major resource of S3 Bucket ?
                The S3 bucket can be use to storage the data for the bucket the store the images,  webpages as well as keys , logs  and you have set the your
                object are securely store in your bucket and you set the permeation to  how access the your object and bucket  


20. Why do we need to host static websites instead of dynamic websites ?
                 Hosting static websites is advantageous over dynamic websites for simplicity, speed, and cost-effectiveness. Static sites load quickly, 
                 are lightweight, and require fewer server resources, leading to faster and more affordable hosting. They are highly scalable, secure, and easy
                to deploy, making them reliable for various projects. Dynamic sites, while essential for certain applications, involve more complexity and 
                 processing, making static hosting a preferable choice for straightforward, efficient web presence.



21.	What is versioning & Why do we need versioning ?
           The versioning have a show to the old upload as well as new upload to same object in bucket . the need the versioning because old object data 
           are use full for the new object data in case you have you to the old object data in versioning time 




22.	What are the objects and types of objects that we are uploading into the S3 Bucket ?
                    objects in an S3 bucket are the files you upload to it. There are  anything from images, videos, and documents to backups , 
                    logs or any other type of data. Each file you upload is considered an object, and it's identified by a unique key (a name or path) within
                     the S3 bucket. So, objects can be pictures, documents, videos, or any digital file that you want to store in Amazon S3.




23.	Why is MFA Delete important in S3 Bucket object level ?
                    MFA Delete in S3 object-level security adds an extra layer of protection, requiring multi-factor authentication to prevent unauthorized or 
                    accidental deletions of objects.



24.	What is S3 Multipart upload ?
                        The multipart of s3 bucket the enable to the uploading to large size because the data will be corrupted chances are more
                       because we need to data uploading in multipart that enables the uploading of large objects by breaking them into smaller parts, 
                        which are uploaded in parallel, offering improved performance, fault tolerance, and the ability to resume uploads.






25.	What are the storage classes in Amazon S3 ?   —------------------- IMP

        There are object we are putting the bucket the storge the data there are class how many time are you use this object and how longer are you storage 
        the data .
         -They have 8 classes of object storage 
1)	S3 Standard 
2)	S3 intelligent – tiering 
3)	S3 standard – IA (infrequent access )
4)	S3 one-zone IA 
5)	S3 glacier instant retrieval
6)	 S3 glacier flexible retrieval
7)	 S3 glacier deep archive
8)	S3 outpost



26.	What is ACL ?
              ACL (Access Control List) is a set of rules defining permissions to control access to resources, commonly used in systems

27.	Why do we need ACL ?
             The  needed to control and manage access permissions, ensuring that only authorized users or processes can interact with specific resources,
             enhancing security and data privacy.

28.	What is a Life cycle policy ? Why do we need to use the life cycle rule ?
            Lifecycle rule is use to define actions you want amazon s3 to take during an object lifetime such as transferring the object  to another 
           class archiving them or deleting them specific period of time 





29.	How can we make our bucket public ?  
30.	How can we give public access to our bucket ?
31.	Aws pricing factor of the S3 Service.
32.	How can we make our object public ?
33.	How can we configure the static website logs in s3 ?
34.	What is CORS ?
35.	What is S3 Inventory ?
36.	What does it mean by Requester pays ?
37.	What is the secondary word to Transfer acceleration ?, why we need to use this transfer acceleration ?




AWS Cloud Trail:-





38.	What is a cloud trail ?
       •	AWS cloud trail is a web services that record activity made on your account and delivers log files to an amazon s3 bucket.
        •	Cloud trail is mainly for auditing and CloudWatch is for performance monitoring..
       •	The cloud trail helps you to provide visibility into user activation by recording action taken on your account 

